These four properties define the reliability and integrity of database transactions.
They ensure that transactions are processed reliably and that the database remains in a consistent state, even in the face of system failures.
Transactions are treated as a single, indivisible unit of work. 
Either all operations within a transaction are completed successfully, or none of them are. 
If any part of the transaction fails, the entire transaction is rolled back to its previous state, preventing partial updates. 
A transaction must bring the database from one valid state to another. 
This means that any transaction must respect all defined constraints, rules, and restrictions of the database.
Concurrent transactions should not interfere with each other.
Each transaction should be isolated from others, as if they were running sequentially.
This prevents issues like dirty reads (reading uncommitted data) or lost updates.
Once a transaction is committed, its changes are permanent and survive system failures. 
The database must guarantee that the data will be written to persistent storage and will not be lost due to power outages or other crashes.
Storing result of recursion is called memoization.
Cache performs well when there is more cache-hits than cache-miss.
Heap is a region of free memory that is allocated and deallocated at run time by the program.
Distributed computing is a model of computing where a task is divided and executed across multiple computers (also called nodes) connected through a network.
Distributed system where multiple independent nodes, running on different physical or logical machines, work together to achieve a common goal.
Consistent hashing is used in distributed systems, such as web caches, CDNs and DBs to efficiently distribute data or load across a variable number of servers or nodes.
Consistent hashing is a distributed hashing technique used in load balancing.
Goal of consistent hashing is to minimize the need for rehashing when the number of nodes in a system changes.
Both Kafka and RabbitMQ systems pass messages between producers and consumers through queues or topics.
Dockerfile is a script that uses the Docker platform to generate containers automatically.
Design patterns are solutions or techniques to avoid code design problem.
Design patterns help us write robust, clean, modular and extensible code.
Builder design pattern is a creational design pattern that separates the construction of a complex object from its representation.
Builder design pattern allows the same construction process to create different representations of the object.
Facade provides a unified, higher-level interface to a set of interfaces in a subsystem.
Bridge pattern decouples an abstraction from its implementation so that the two can vary independently.
Generics enables generic programming in Java. Generics can be used to write classes and methods that can operate on any data type.
Advantages of generic programming: compile-time type safety, avoids class cast exceptions and eliminate the need for most type conversions.
CQRS pattern help us scaly read and write operations independently.
Kafka connect is a tool for scalably and reliably streaming data between Kafka and other data system.
Solid principle is a set of guidelines for writing code that makes it easier to manage, extend and debug.
Solid principle help us break big problem into smaller easier to handle parts.
Solid reduces dependencies on code so changes in one area won't break another.
Solid reduces tight coupling, making code more flexible and easier to maintain.
Synchronization is built around an internal entity known as the monitor.
Monitors are used to achieved mutual exclusion and threads cooperation. 
A monitor is an entity that possesses a lock, a wait-queue and an entry-queue.
Every Java objects has a monitor associated with them.
Lock enforces mutual exclusive access to synchronized code block or method invoked on the associated object.
Wait set is the set of all the threads waiting on an monitor object that is used to provide coordination between multiple threads.
Entry set is the set of all the threads who has already requested for the lock and the lock is not acquired by them yet.
A lock is a tool for controlling access to a shared resource by multiple threads.
Every objects in java has an intrinsic lock associated with it.
Only one thread at a time can acquire the lock and all access to the shared resource requires that the lock be acquired first.
When a new thread tries to acquire the lock and if already a thread owns the lock then that thread will be waiting on the entry set to acquire the lock.
When the thread which is acquired the lock completes execution of its critical section then it will release the lock.
Next thread will acquire the lock but this next thread is taken from the entry set and will be determined by JVM based on some criteria like FIFO.
Visibility ensures that read functionality is thread safe.
Mutual exclusion or atomicity ensures that write functionality is thread safe.
Local primitive variables are thread-safe because each thread has separate stack memory.
Local reference variables are not thread-safe because each thread share heap memory.
Mutual exclusion is a property of concurrency control, which is instituted for the purpose of preventing race conditions.
A thread of execution is the smallest sequence of programmed instructions that can be managed independently by a OS scheduler.
Threads of a process share its executable code and the values of its dynamically allocated variables and non-thread-local global variables at any given time.
Deadlock which occurs when many processes are waiting for a shared resource (critical section) which is being held by some other process.
There is no any guarantee about exactly when a blocked thread is unblocked when the synchronized block is free again.
This is typically up to the OS or execution platform to coordinate the unblocking of blocked threads.
Race condition occures when a shared resource is accessed by different actors at the same time.
Both mutex and semaphore helps managing access to shared resources but they do it in different ways.
Mutex is suited for exclusive access whereas semaphore is suited for limited concurrency.
HTTP keep-alive or HTTP persistent connection, is a feature that allows a single TCP connection to be reused for multiple HTTP requests and responses.
Microservices: each service can be developed, deployed and scaled separately.
In monolith we have single unit of deployment.
Docker is a technology which decouples application code from infrastructure.
Dependecy injection allows us to depends more on abstraction rather than the concrete implementation, which promotes loosely-coupled architecture, flexibility and pluggability within our code.
Dependency injection generally means passing a dependent object as a parameter to a method rather than having the method create the dependent object.
What it means in practice is that the method does not have a direct dependency on a particular implementation, any implementation that meets the requirements can be passed as a parameter. 
Dependency injection is a software design pattern that allow us to develop loosely-coupled software.
Authentication verifies the identity of a user or service and authorization determines their access rights.
Authentication is the process of verifying a user's identity while authorization is the process of determining what actions a user can perform.
Dynamic binding (dispatch) is the process of linking function call to a specific sequence of code (function) at run-time.
Dynamic binding: a process in which a call to overridden method is resolved at runtime rather than compile time.
Web services provide a web-based interface that makes the services of an application available to other applications on the web.
A web service helps us expose the functionality or data of an application to another applications over world wide web.
Spring creates proxies for all the classes annotated with @Transactional, either on the class or on any of the methods.
The proxy allows the framework to inject transactional logic before and after the running method, mainly for starting and committing the transaction.
Polymorphism is the provision of a single interface to entities of different types or the use of a single symbol to represent multiple different types.
Field level polymorphism: a reference variable of class T can point to object of class T as well as object of subclass of T.
================================
Object-relational mapping (ORM) is the process of mapping java objects to relational tables of a relational database. Each row in the table correspond to the single object and each column in the table correspond to the each field of the object.

ORM is an layer between object-oriented language and SQL language of relational database. ORM layer work like a adapter layer as it adapts the language of object graphs to the language of relational tables. Data is structured into object graphs in the object oriented program and relational tables in the relational database.

Java Persistence API is the java standard API for object-relational mapping. JPA is one of the many possible approach to ORM. The API is a set of concepts that defines which objects within the application should be persisted and how it should persist them. JPA is only an specification and that it needs an implementation to work. Most popular implementation of JPA is Hibernate. JPA is concerned with persistence, which means any mechanism by which java objects outlive the application process that created them.
=======================
Kafka stream API can be used to transform or aggregate topics before reaching to consumers.
Objects do not create other objects on which they relay to do their work, instead they get the objects that they need from an outside world.
===============
Thread synchronization is a mechanism which ensures that two or more concurrent processes or threads do not simultaneously execute some particular program segment known as critical section. Processes' access to critical section is controlled by using synchronization techniques. When one thread starts executing the critical section (serialized segment of the program) the other thread should wait until the first thread finishes.
============================
Search tree have the initial state at the root.
Branches of search tree are actions.
Search tree nodes corresponds to states in the state space of the problem.
Search tree have repeated states: such repeated states may make the search tree infinite.