SPOF is a component in your system whose failure can bring down the entire system down.
Pluggable code is a system architecture where components can be easily added, removed or replaced without changing existing code. 
These components follow a common interface or contract.
Creating platform threads is expensive both in terms of time and space.
Load balancer allows us to roll out software updates without taking the whole service down.
Shared data cached: causes a thread not to notice that data has been changed by the another thread.
Returned value is wrapped into the Future object, which is returned immediately.
Method get blocks invoking thread until timeout or when the value within the Future object becomes available.
Method wait puts a thread into waiting state against specific monitor.
Any number of threads can be waiting against the same monitor.
Keyword synchronized enforces exclusive access to the block of code.
DAO is a design pattern to implement persistent layer of the Java application and reduces coupling between business logic and persistent logic.
Abstraction is separation of interface from implementation so that we can have one interface and many implementations.
Abstract data type: what operations can be performed on this data, ignoring how those operations will be performed.
High level modules should not depend on low level modules. Both should depends on abstraction.
Abstraction should not depend implementation rather implementation should depends on abstraction.
Polymorphism is the ability of a variable, function or object to take on multiple forms.
Primary key: candidate key chosen to uniquely identify each row of data in a table.
Foreign key: an attribute in table which is used to define its relationship with another table.
Normalization is technique of organizing the data into multiple related tables to minimize data redundancy.
Transaction: a series of database operations that either all succeed or they all fail.  
Library is a tool that provides a specific functionality.
Framework is a set of tools and guidelines for building the application.
Event-driven architecture is a software design pattern that allows system to detect, process and respond to events.
Constructor sets the initial state of an object ensuring that it is ready to use.
Interface defines what a class does but not how it does it.
A rate limiter controls how many requests a client can make within a specific timeframe.




